# Meetup 02: 22-05-2022
Time: 5:30PM

**Theme: Design meets Data Encoding**

**Topic 1**: Design Systems Roundtable - How to enhance collaboration between Designers & Developers
**Facilitator**: Novice :)
**Speaker**: _Idowu Adesina_
**Duration**: 45mins- 1 hr.

**Summary**:
The way we build digital products now still reinforces the digital divide between the experiences of people with disabilities and people who are able bodied.

As people who are part of both engineering and product teams & cultures, it's our individual responsibilities to ensure we change the way we build products that are more inclusive.

In this talk, we'll consider,

What is accessibility (in practical sense)?
How inclusive products tackle real-life accessible products?
What does building for accessibility mean both Designers and Engineers?
How do we ensure our processes are adapted to fit to solve such issues as much as we can?
What are the practical low-hanging fruits we can take-on as we consider building accessible products?
This is a conversational talk with structure as we'll learn from each other's real-life and practical experiences.


**Topic 2**: Formats for data encoding, an introduction
**Facilitator**: Ugo
**Skill Level**: Beginner
**Duration**: 45mins- 1 hr.

**Summary**

Evolvability is a quality attribute of large scale software systems. See 1 for more details.
Changes in systems usually occur in the form of a change in the code or schema and it is quite often
the case that you can't have all components within your system running with the same code and schema at
any given period in time. Some example scenarios includes:

A case where several components owned by different teams within your company depends on your component via a contract as defined by a schema.
A case where easily updating the code in a component is not feasible. e.g A user updating an app running on their device.
Despite all this, we need the system to keep running smoothly.
In this talk, we look at data encoding formats and their role in building systems that respond well to change i.e evolvable systems.
Specifically, we will consider some of the following factors in choosing a format type:

Ability to handle schema changes. i.e Evolvability.
Data size in the wire.
Readability.
The formats we will look at includes:

Language Specific Formats. e.g Python's pickle.
JSON/XML.
Message Pack.
Thrift.
Protobufs.
